This month's theme is taken from David's poetic song to Jehovah at Psalm 1825, which states,
with someone loyal, you act in loyalty.
The Hebrew term act in loyalty reminds us of God's loyal love,
that is love motivated by commitment, integrity, loyalty, and deep attachment.
So loyalty is more than just a feeling.
It is active. It's rooted in love.
How comforting it is to know that Jehovah lovingly attaches himself to those who are loyal to him.
What motivated David to write the words at Psalm 1825?
The superscription reveals that it was composed after Jehovah rescued him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul.
Think of the great joy and relief he must have felt after experiencing firsthand Jehovah's loyal love and mighty saving acts.
However, throughout his life, David experienced disloyalty at its worst.
From his king Saul, from his wife Michael, from his trusted counselor Ahithofel, and from his son Absalom.
He felt the deep hurt of betrayal by those he trusted and loved most.
Loyalty is a choice.
What do we find when we look back at David's life?
David chose to stay loyal to God.
From a humble shepherd boy carrying for his sheep to a valiant king carrying for the nation,
he proved to be someone loyal, a man agreeable to Jehovah's heart.
But it can be a real test to maintain loyalty to God when we face injustices.
Imagine the desperate situation that David and his mighty warriors experienced when they were fugitives,
forced to hide in the wilderness, often low on provisions.
They saw firsthand King Saul's jealous rage.
But what choice did David make when urged by his men to seize the opportunity to take Saul's life?
Notice what David told his men at first Samuel 24 and verse 6.
It is unthinkable from Jehovah's standpoint that I should do such a thing to my Lord, the anointed of Jehovah,
by lifting my hand against him for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
David knew that if he remained loyal, Jehovah would remain loyal to him.
He would show him loyal love.
He humbly put aside his personal feelings and viewed matters from Jehovah's perspective.
He chose to wait patiently for Jehovah to act in loyalty.
We'll soon be facing life-changing events for told in the Bible that will test our loyalty to Jehovah and his organization.
So now is the time to strengthen our loyalty.
As we do, we can be sure that Jehovah knows our circumstances, perhaps injustices we have experienced,
and will reward our loyal service.
So ask yourself, what loyal actions will motivate Jehovah to be loyal to me?
Let's consider three areas.
First, we can be loyal to Jehovah by defending him.
But Jehovah is a sovereign of the universe.
How can we come to his defense?
We can learn how from the fine example of a lie who.
In the book of Job, a lie who listened patiently as Job and his three false confidors spoke.
Notice a lie who's reaction at Job 32 verses 2 and 3.
His anger blazed against Job for trying to prove himself right rather than God.
He was also very angry with Job's three companions because they could not find an answer but had declared God wicked.
A fire of righteous indignation was burning inside young a lie who.
In Job 36 verses 2 and 3, he loyally comes to Jehovah's defense saying,
be patient with me a little longer while I explain for I still have words to speak on God's behalf.
I will speak comprehensively about what I know and I will ascribe righteousness to my maker.
A lie who courageously proved loyal by praising and yes, defending God.
Why do we need to come to Jehovah's defense today?
Because our loving Heavenly Father is blasphemed in so many ways.
False religions claim that he's part of a Trinity and that he torments people eternally in burning hell.
Others say that he does not exist or if he does, he doesn't really care about us.
We know that such lies come from Satan the devil.
We demonstrate our loyalty by speaking in defense of Jehovah, thereby proving Satan the liar that he is.
We boldly and zealously proclaim that he does exist as the Almighty God and that he is wise, just and loving,
and that he will soon bring an end to all evil and reward his loyal ones with eternal life.
Jehovah could make the stones cry out in defense, yet he honors his loyal witnesses, you and me, with this fine privilege.
Second, we can be loyal to Jehovah by being loyal to the faithful and discreet slave, the governing body.
Jehovah and Jesus are using the faithful and discreet slave to feed us spiritually, so we owe our loyalty to that slave.
But some may say, isn't the governing body made up of imperfect men?
Yes, it is.
The last perfect person to walk the earth was Jesus himself.
There is no perfect person or organization on the globe.
But as a long time faithful brother used to say, this is the best imperfect organization on earth.
Jesus didn't say the slave would be infallible.
He said it would be faithful and discreet.
The way we listen to and obey the faithful slave has a direct bearing on the strength of our friendship with God.
In fact, it means our very life.
But what if the governing body serves some spiritual food that is not to our liking?
Or what if we do not fully understand or agree with a clarification of a belief?
On one occasion, Jesus followers, including the Apostle Peter, were confronted with a new teaching.
How did most react?
Notice John 6 and verse 60.
It states, when they heard this, many of his disciples said, this speech is shocking.
Who can listen to it?
The result? Continuing in verse 66.
Because of this, many of his disciples went off to the things behind and would no longer walk with him.
But how did Peter respond when Jesus asked them, are you too stumbled?
At John 6, 68, we read, Simon Peter answered him, Lord, whom shall we go away to?
You have sayings of everlasting life.
What loyalty?
Peter's loyalty was based on solid evidence that Jesus was the Messiah.
His loyalty was evidence of his faith.
That is the kind of loyalty we want to imitate today.
There are times we must wait on Jehovah to clarify matters.
In the meantime, may we prove ourselves loyal, like Peter, and follow closely the lead of the faithful slave,
who closely follow in the footsteps of their Master, Jesus.
At times, though, we receive counsel that touches us personally.
For instance, on JW Broadcasting, we receive loving reminders from members of the governing body to be forgiving,
to honor Jehovah with our valuable things and to remain spiritually alert.
Through the Watch Tower and at Christian meetings, we're reminded to be careful about our address and grooming,
to choose good associates and wholesome entertainment, and to remain morally clean.
Are we quick to respond and make needed adjustments?
Or do we find ourselves wanting to defend our personal rights?
A situation in the Apostle Paul's life tested his loyalty to theocratic direction?
It's found in Acts chapter 21.
As you recall, Paul arrived in Jerusalem in 56 CE after a very successful missionary tour.
You can imagine his excitement as he related in detail that things God did among the nations through his ministry.
After hearing Paul's extraordinary account, the older men revealed to Paul a problem in Judea that involved him personally.
Read what they said at Acts 21 and verse 21.
But they, the Jewish believers, have heard it rumored about you that you have been teaching all the Jews among the nations in apostasy from Moses,
telling them not to circumcise their children or to follow the customary practices.
Well, perhaps Paul thought, me in apostate? Really? How can they say such a thing?
I just finished my third missionary tour and look how Jehovah blessed the work.
Nevertheless, the older men gave Paul very clear direction at Acts 21 verses 23 and 24 that he likely did not anticipate.
And there it reads.
So do what we tell you. We have four men who have put themselves under a vow.
Take these men with you and cleanse yourself ceremonially together with them and take care of their expenses so that they may have their head shaved.
Then everyone will know that there is nothing to the rumors they were told about you but that you are walking orderly and you are also keeping the law.
Was this the time for Paul to question their decision or demand his rights?
He could have reason.
Didn't you read my letter to the Galatians where it says the law was nailed to the torture stake with Jesus?
I did nothing wrong. Why do I have to put on this pretense just because a few are overly sensitive?
No. He humbly did as they requested, although it nearly cost him his life.
Yes, it meant swallowing his pride, but Paul knew there were bigger issues involved than his personal rights.
He was considerate of the consciences of others.
But more importantly, he showed his loyalty to Jehovah and to the governing body.
Do we see the bigger issue in our life?
Let us be determined to be humble, flexible and obedient like Paul and thereby prove ourselves faithful to the faithful and discrete slave.
Third, we can be loyal to Jehovah by being loyal to the elders.
We've discussed loyalty to Jehovah himself and to the faithful slave, but what about direction we receive from the elders in our congregation?
We listen to our elders give talks and comments at the meetings each week.
We work with them in the ministry and we associate with them.
This regular contact gives us more opportunities to see their imperfections and flaws.
We could begin to focus on their weaknesses, weakening our trust in God's arrangement.
For example, if you zoom in on any of our pictures in our magazines, all you'll see are colored spots or pixels.
But when you zoom out, you see a beautiful photo or painting.
Similarly, when looking at our elders, don't zoom in on their imperfections, the spots of ink, rather see the big picture.
Why, then, is it so important to strengthen our loyalty to our hardworking, loving shepherds?
Because these gifts and men are an expression of Jehovah's loyal love, as they loyalty lead, feed and protect his precious sheep.
As the great tribulation nears, our survival will depend on our readiness to respond to their direction as they follow the governing body's direction.
Our loyalty is not to men, but to Jehovah's arrangement made up of imperfect, but loyal men.
That is a lesson that Korah, Nathan and Abiram refuse to learn.
In this clip from the video Respect Jehovah's Authority, listen to Korah's defiant attitude toward Moses as taken from Numbers 16.
That is enough of you, because the whole assembly are all of them holy, and Jehovah's in their midst.
Why, then, should you lift yourselves up above the congregation of Jehovah?
Korah and the others made great pretenses of loyalty to God, but completely ignored the fact that Jehovah directly appointed Moses and Aaron.
Who, then, were they really murmuring against? Notice Numbers 26 verse 9.
This, Nathan and Abiram were chosen ones of the assembly who fought against Moses and Aaron along with Korah's group when they fought against Jehovah.
While focusing on the man Moses and his imperfections, they did not really see that it was Jehovah who was directing the nation.
They were actually fighting against Jehovah. Their disloyalty to God's appointed men cost them their lives, but Korah's sons made a different choice.
In this next clip, notice an attitude far different from their fathers.
My father and his companions actually rebelled against Jehovah's Authority.
Their envy, pride, and ambition led to rebellion, and in the end, they brought this honor upon themselves.
My father saw glory, but his glory was short-lived.
I'm glad, though, that my brothers and I took the right side of the issue.
It must have been hard, though.
Yes, it was, but that helps us to understand how important it is that we not allow friendships or family to take priority over our relationship with Jehovah and our obedience to Him.
That's what fathers always told me.
Yes.
Ultimately, successful direction for us humans comes from Jehovah.
We should trust completely in His choices of appointed ones.
You see, respect for those whom Jehovah has appointed, shows respect for Jehovah's Authority.
The loyalty displayed by Korah's sons moved Jehovah to act in loyalty by sparing their lives.
What fine examples for us to imitate?
May we never find ourselves fighting against Jehovah by murmuring or complaining against those who He has appointed to lead His people today.
To see more of the good and the bad examples of loyalty among the Israelites,
we encourage you to watch the entire Respect Jehovah's Authority video on JW Broadcasting.
In review, how can we show our loyalty to Jehovah?
First, by coming to His defense as His witnesses.
Second, by maintaining our loyal support of the faithful and discreet slave.
And third, by a lowly following direction from the appointed elders.
As you imitate faithful examples like the sons of Korah, like David, Peter, and Paul,
you will prove to be some of Jehovah views as loyal, worthy of receiving His acts of loyalty forever.